Source: http://www.guitarangel.co.uk/

We are specialists in vintage guitar restoration and repair.

About Us
'G.D.' workshop is a thriving family business led by Damien Lufrice, a professional luthier for over 30 years and one of the UKs leading vintage guitar restoration specialists. An extensive knowledge and understanding of vintage instruments, construction, finishing techniques, materials and processes ensures that all work is carried out sympathetically, expertly, to exacting high standards and with the utmost level of care and attention.

Find Us
Our dedicated workshops and studios are situated in the heart of the Forest of Dean, Gloucestershire, serving the local community, along with clients throughout the UK and internationally.

Luthier Services
Working with his son Antas Lufrice, a comprehensive range of services is offered for both vintage and modern guitars and basses, acoustic or electric, also extending to ukuleles, mandolins and other stringed instruments.

Guitar Restoration
As specialists in vintage restoration work we are well versed in both acoustic and electric guitar construction. Our traditional approach to repair techniques uses appropriate materials and tooling and we always advise the repair and servicing of existing parts where possible to retain originality and value.

Guitar Repairs
With over 3 decades of experience many efficient and effective techniques have been developed. We have the knowledge and expertise to repair instruments with extreme major structural damage, including ones that might look impossible or which are in several pieces needing extensive rebuild. In addition to major structural repair work we also repair and overhaul individual components as necessary, as well as sourcing and adding any missing parts.

Guitar Modifications
It has to be said that we spend many hours undoing old mods and alterations on what have become vintage and collectable instruments, to get them back to standard spec,  but a fair proportion of our work is on modern instruments so we offer a full range of professional services to get your guitars, basses and folk instruments modified the way you want them.

http://www.guitarangel.co.uk/casestudiesDetail.php?Epiphone-EB3-bass-extensive-neck-break-repair-26
Epiphone EB3 bass neck repair
November 28, 2024
Woodwork Repairs
The first task was to align and re-attach the headstock. The damaged portion of fingerboard was removed in line with fret 7 and the neck was routed to accept two maple reinforcing tongues to reinforce the join. These would later be hidden beneath the new fingerboard section. Strong maple tongues were made, glued in, then pared back flush.

The missing inlays were cut from mother of pearl and a new fingerboard section was made from a rosewood blank. Once we'd cut the fret slots and the inlay housings, the new inlays were fitted.

Restoring the Finish
The next job was to radius the new fretboard piece and attach it to the neck. Once the glue had set, the edges were sanded flush with the neck, then the frets were added, levelled and crowned. We then  ebonised the entire fretboard to blend the new section in with the existing. Side dot markers were fitted and a new nut was carved from a solid bone blank. The repaired area on the back of the neck was refinished in a gradated tint to blend into the existing paintwork.

http://www.guitarangel.co.uk/casestudiesDetail.php?1964-Gretsch-country-gentleman-rebind-neck-reset-and-fretboard-true-up-with-refret-24
1964 Gretsch country gentleman neck restoration
October 12, 2024
Initial inspection and binding removal

The first task was to remove the body binding. Most of the time the inner layer is sound enough to leave on the guitar. If this is the case there is less disturbance to the paintwork/finish.

Neck work
The next task was to remove the neck, remove and replace the neck binding, true up the fretboard and reprofile it, then add the red side dot markers and new frets which were levelled, crowned and had the ends nicely smoothed.

Neck refit and new body binding
The heel was an 'interesting' shape. There was a lot of glue in the neck pocket but not much wood to wood contact. We tidied the heel and added shims to the neck pocket for an improved angle and a perfect fit.

With the neck refitted it was time to add the body binding layers, repairing the black base layer in a few places. The new white/black/white layers are added as single strips and scraped back individually. A new heel cap and side infil plates were also made and fitted. All the binding edges were fine sanded for a soft aged look and feel.  With the guitar masked up we tint coated the bindings to match the natural patina of the guitars overall look.

Reassembly
We serviced and cleaned all the fittings and electrics and made a new rear cover as the original one was very brittle and distorted. The original one will stay with the guitar for originalitys sake.

Restrung and set up, the guitar plays great with a good height to the bridge, now giving plenty of future adjustment. A clean up and polish of all the paintwork and new mute tops completed the work.